
- WIP (work in progress) is a silent killer. Therefore, one of the most critical mechanisms in the management of any plant is job and materials releaser. Without it, you can't control WIP.
- My heart lunches as all the implications sink in. I've seen this movie before. The plot is simple: First, you take an urgent date-driven project, where the shipment date cannot be delayed because of external commitments made to Wall Street or customers. Then you add a bunch of developers who use up all the time in the schedule, leaving no time for testing or operations deployment. And because no one is willing to slip the deployment date, everyone after Development has to take outrageous and unacceptable shortcuts to hit the date. 
- "Once you figure this out, young Bill, you will be well on your way toward understanding the Three Ways," He says. "The First Way helps us understand how to create fast flow of work as it moves from Development into IT Operations, because that's what's between the business and the customer. The Second Way shows us how to shorten and amplify feedback loops, so we can fix quality at the source and avoid rework. And the Third Way shows us how to create a culture that simultaneously fosters experimentation, learning from failure, and understanding that repetition and practice are the prerequisites to mastery."
- Unlike the other categories of work, unplanned work is recovery work, which almost always takes you away from your goals. That's why it's so important to know where your unplanned work is coming from.
- Constraint/Bottleneck: Until you create a trusted system to manage the flow of work to the constraint, the constraint is constantly wasted, which means that the constraint is likely being drastically underutilized. That means you're not delivering to the business the full capacity available to you. It also means that you're not paying down technical debt, so your problems and amount of unplanned work continues to increase over time.
- How to handle constraint/bottleneck:
	1. Step 1 is to identify the constraint.
	2. Step 2 is to exploit the constraint. In other words, make sure that the constraint is not allowed to waste any time. Ever. It should never be waiting on any other resource for anything, and ti should always be working on the highest priority commitment the IT Operations organization has made to the rest of the enterprise. Always.
	3. Step 3 is to subordinate the constraint. In the theory of constraints, this is typically implemented by something called Drum-Buffer-Rope. We need to figure out the tempo of work according to this constraint/bottleneck.
- Remember, outcomes are what matter - not the process, not controls, or, for that matter, what work you complete.
- Technical debt is like financial debt wherein the compounding interest costs grow over time. If an organization doesn't pay down its technical debt, every calorie in the organization can be spent just paying interest, in the form of unplanned work. Unplanned work comes at the expense of planned work.
- There are four types of work:
	- Business projects
	- IT operations projects
	- Changes
	- Unplanned work.
- [209] Every work center is made up of four things: the machine, the man, the method and the measures.
- [212] Properly elevating preventive work is at the heart of programs like Total Productive Maintenance, which has been empraced by the Lean Community. TPM insists that we do whatever it takes to assure machine availability by elevating maintenance. As one of my senseis would say, "Improving daily work is even more important than doing daily work." The Third Way is all about ensuring that we're continually putting tension into the system, so that we're continually reinforcing habits and improving something. Resilience engineering tells us that we should routinely inject faults into the system, doing them frequently, to make them less painful.
- [213] Sensei Mike Rother says that it almost doesn't matter what you improve, as long as you're improving something. Why? Because if you are not improving, entropy guarantees that you are actually getting worse, which ensures that there is no path to zero errors, zero work-related accidents, and zero loss. He calls this Improvement Kata. He used the work *kata*, because he understod that repetition creates habits, and habits are what enable mastery. Whether you're talking about sports training, learning a musical instrument, or training in the Special Forces, nothing is more to mastery than practice and drills. Studies haver shown that practicing five minutes daily is better than practicing once a week  for three hours. And if you want to create a genuine culture of improvement, you must create those habits.
-  [213] Just as important as throttling the release of work is managing the handoffs. The wait time for a given resource is the percentage that resource is busy, divided by the percentage that resource is idle. So, if a resource is fifty percent utilized, the wait time is 50/50, or 1 unit. If the resource is ninety percent utilized, the wait time is 90/10, or nine times longer. A critical part of the Second Way is making wait times visible, so you know when you work spends days sitting in someone's queue - or worse, when work has to go backwards, because it doesn't have all the parts or requires rework. 
- [285] Now you must prove that you can master the Second Way, creating constant feedback loops from IT Operations back into Development, designing quality into the product  at the earliest stages. To do that, you can't have nine-month-long releases. You need much faster feedback.
- [285] In any system of work, the theoretical ideal is single-piece flow, which maximizes throughput and minimizes variance. You get there by continually reducing batch sizes. As Sensei Goldratt would say, you have deployed an amazing technology, but because you haven't changed the way you work, you haven't actually diminished a limitation.
- [285] The flow of work should ideally go in one direction only: forward. When I see work going backward, I think 'waste'. It might be because of defects, lack of specification, or rework. The flow of work goes in one direction only: forward. Create a system of work in IT that does that. Remember, the goal is single-piece flow.
- [298] Business Agility is not just about raw speed. It's about how good you are at detecting and responding to changes in the market and being able to take larger and more calculated risks. It's about continual experimentation, like Scott Cook did at Intuit, where they did over forty experiments during the peak tax filing season to figure out how to maximize customer conversion rates. During the peak tax filing season!
- [298] If you cant' out-experiment and beat your competitors in time to market and agility, you are sunk. Features are always a gamble. If you're lucky, ten percent will get the desired benefits. So the faster you can get those features to market and test them, the better off you'll be. Incidentally, you also pay back the business faster for the use of capital, which means the business starts making money faster, too.